Did the other boys at Brecon know that you were Jewish?
Oh yes. We had a special dispensation that we didn't have to go into chapel.
And I thought, well, I'll be able to get my letters written on a Sunday morning.
Instead of wasting time in chapel, I'll stay in the classroom and write my letters, which was fine.
And of course, when it came to the religious instructions,
I was allowed to sit at the back and get on with other homework.
They didn't force me to take part at all.
I was the only one who didn't attend chapel, which was rather remarkable,
but nobody held it against me. And I was never singled out as being different.
How did that feel being the only one?
Fine, yes, I was quite happy with it. I didn't worry me.
And I even went on to become head boy of the house, so it certainly didn't inhibit me in any way.
And of course, the name was a bit of a giveaway, wasn't it?
Sherman was not exactly a Welsh name, so they knew that I was different.
And we did have three or four other boys there who were all refugees.
So I wasn't exactly alone. One was a cousin of mine, Tom Adler.
He had the button factory in Merthyr, which, and then there was another chap, Henry Kurtzman.
They had OP chocolates. And there was another one, Bobby Gregory.
And they had a glove factory, Planet Gloves.
Although Tom and Henry had left by the time I came there,
I was contemporary with Bobby Gregory, and he was one of my best friends.
Did you have any dispensations at all when you were at Macefield House or Lamonia School?
No, no. Well, yeah, there was no religion at all, really, there.